Problem Statement:
What areas of DC are similar to each other across social, economic, housing, and demographic characteristics?

DC is rarely socio-demographically or economicaly explored at a hyper-local level. Some commercial products exist, but generalize the district using zip codes or larger units of analysis. ESRI’s Tapestry product is one of these. Because DC has no congressional representation, companies like Quorum rarely explore it to the same extent they explore, say, Ohio.
Contemporary analysis typically observes only one or two variables at a time--maps of median income vs X demographic variable, maps displaying the ethnic segregation of DC, etc. Lately, we've seen maps of poverty vs COVID and ethnicity vs COVID. Such analysis can still be elucidating or useful, but with only bivariate comparisons, we’re left to infer the deeper sociodemographic nuances of our own neighborhoods. When it comes to policy, beliefs generated from anecdotal evidence will lead to systems-level bias and injustice. For example, some commentary refers to Anacostia in tones that are, at best, sweeping generalizations of geography and, at worst, racist. We see the same thing in NE, Columbia Heights, and other neighborhoods.
This analysis will attempt to provide more nuance in describing DC at a granular level. Clustering characteristics across all 179 DC census tracts and a wide range of variables will reveal where areas of likenesses present themselves at a hyper-local level. Beyond dispelling preconceived notions and bias, understanding the granular makeup of the city at this level can help government, planners, social services, and businesses better and more fairly serve DC residents. This analysis will aim to offer insight into issues of gentrification, segregation, class and wealth dispersion in the city, among other topics.

We gathered the social, economic, housing, and demographic characteristics from the American COmmunity Survey Data Profiles (https://www.census.gov/acs/www/data/data-tables-and-tools/data-profiles/). The most recent data avaiable are from 2018, and varaible selection accounted for margins of error--those census tracts with a margin of error greater than 5% were dropped. This is outlined in further detail in the feature engineering section of the project.
